hi guys I'm seriously ill now the
trouble with my voice did just begin
with a physical injury but of course
having your throat scraped up then
creates an opportunity for a virus to
enter your system so I'm burning up with
a fever and you know this is a situation
I've been in many times before suffering
physically alone in a country where you
can't speak the language I really again
you guys know I'm very critical of this
glamorization of the digital nomad
lifestyle
I think it's crummy if you're rich I
think it's crummy if you're poor I think
it's crummy halfway in between and you
know I know what that's like I know what
that's like with trivial illnesses and I
know what that's like with serious
illnesses but you know really living
alone my current circumstances I'm much
more alone than I would be as a Buddhist
monk you're forced to socialize to some
extent as a Buddhist monk you you might
be surprised even if you live in a cave
you'd be surprised so I've been you know
writing down Chinese terms for different
types of medicine and going in handled
but in case I wanted to upload this
video showing you the streets of Kunming
so that you guys on patreon would have a
sense of where I'm at and I'm now gonna
try to just record some comments in
response to this remarkable piece of fan
mail I got a bit more time to answer one
of the questions or the patreon viewers
but as you guys know the Q&A is still
coming up I've had family all around the
world
remarkable corners of the world I've had
fan mail from North Africa of that fan
mail from some of the Muslim majority
countries obviously I've had fan mail
from all parts of the Western world and
you know this is my first piece of fan
mail from one of the indigenous peoples
of Argentina and it's very sincere I
will post the screenshot if you guys
want to read it and as I'm reading it I
am going to just spontaneously improve
the grammar a bit because he's obviously
struggling to write to me in English and
you know I imagine he has to work very
hard to understand my videos when he
watches them in English too so it's it's
flattering in more ways than one but he
writes hello I am from Argentina I saw
your videos on YouTube I found some very
interesting but you realize that most
people who talk about veganism and you
too
our first world countries the same
countries that plundered the third world
ended with our resources who committed
genocides in our land the base of the
enslavement of my people I'm a
descendant of the mapuche 's napoo che
is I think how that's pronounced and of
all people since 1492 was that we have
no soul then we were animals and could
enslave us so just pause obviously his
grammar and so on is not is not so clear
here but this is a very brief summary of
something that's basically correct
obviously the details are a bit more
complicated and that happened
considerably later than 1492 it didn't
happen the moment Christopher Columbus
discovered the land but there was
actually sort of court of inquiry in
Rome and you know the the Catholic
Church had to decide whether or not
these were human beings or animals and
it was very convenient for them to
determine that no the indigenous people
of South America were not human beings
so this justified various brutalities
against them his next sentence though
says the basis of the capitalist system
is animal and human slavery period it is
the colonization of the other period so
I'll pause here this is the problem with
sloppy left-wing thinking and obviously
I sympathize that this guy I have no
idea what kind of education he has all I
mean my whole life I'm engaged with
pratik of the left-wing not because I'm
conservative or not because I'm right
way but simply because I live in
societies so dominated by left-wing
political thought I basically never meet
any conservatives all my professors at
the University were kind of extreme left
wingers and so I'll kill my my debates
have generally been from a moderate
position looking at left-wing
misconceptions about history politics
what-have-you
now what I would draw attention to here
because it's such an easy thing to to
ignore it's just the use of the word
capitalist system even from a Marxist
perspective the power of the Catholic
Church he's describing here
is not capitalist that is simply not
correct you know the rule of the Pope in
Rome you can describe as futile you can
describe it as many things but it's not
capitalist and Marxist will often use
the term fully formed capitalism or
bourgeois capitalism to clarify that in
their view capitalism as such capitalism
clearly defined excludes both slavery
and feudalism it's a separate system
capitalism in principle even from a
left-wing perspective must be based on
wage labor on contracts on paying
laborers and it also has to be based on
private ownership of land buying and
selling land so feudalism under the
Catholic Church over 500 years ago was
not based in any of these things and the
power of the Pope in Rome to dictate who
is an animal and who is a human being is
very you know it's a very moving example
from the history of Western civilization
that also cannot be and should not be
blamed on capitalism now again you could
blame it on theocracy you could blame it
on Christianity or you could blame it on
Catholic the Catholic Church more
specifically than Christianity in
general but yes there are many deep
questions to ask about this but simply
blaming capitalism which is you know
part of his uh you know thought process
here is is deeply flawed and I know how
problematic this is because I know what
misconceptions it leads to
it's a dangerous misconception itself
and it leads to more misconceptions
thereafter
so he now asks why do Western subjects
have no historical consciousness to see
the Origin of Species ISM sorry but your
channel took me to a channel freely and
it is sad and angry to think that this
is changing the world so obviously here
I suppose them apparently he had never
seen freelee's channel before but
because of my critique he looked into it
and he's horrified from his sort of
left-wing revolutionary perspective that
these people think lifestyle activism is
changing the world so he goes on to say
a video a diet which veganism is not a
photo on Instagram a post on Facebook
not to make change in the world why do
you think that
the change so obvious he's not asking me
he's asking why do these people think it
makes change why do the supporters are
freely of lifestyle activism why do they
think that's gonna change the world so
his next sentence is I'm not attacking
I'm just asking
I do not understand so obviously more
than a year ago I think I had a lot of
videos on my channel asking this
question this is the hard question that
I think just this week a lot of people
have been waking up to waking up to the
gravity of and the seriousness of this
this problem your channel has videos
that are good very good and would be
great to have subtitles in Spanish a
suggestion because they have a good view
have a concept an idea to show sorry my
English is not very good and I do not
know if you understand what I'm saying I
see so obviously even though I do not
share the the left-wing extreme view
that he does that basically we can just
blame the capitalist system for these
problems you know obviously this is a
very sympathetic and well-intentioned
letter now I mean the other thing is
when you blame the capitalist system you
have to contrast it to something else so
if we are talking about carnism if we're
talking about animal exploitation if you
are going to blame capitalism for those
problems why is it that the problems are
not better when we contrast capitalism
to feudalism why is it that the problems
are not better when we contrast
capitalism to communism now there are
other systems non capitalist systems you
can treasure why are these problems not
better when we compare it to the the
pure slave system of say ancient Athens
you know so I say pure because this is
slavery without some other economic
elements in case you can have a slave
society a feudal society a communist
society
you could have completely non-capital
sized and currently you know Isis Isis
is a non capitalist society that's the
the Islamic state you know in a
constitutive war in all of those
societies I mean animal exploitation I
would say is approximately as terrible
as it is at a capitalist system if
you're going to compare them maybe you
can find a few percentage points
difference between them the difference
is in capitalism were allowed to talk
about it under a capitalist democracy
we're actually allowed to make the
social change through you know from
of all public forums which we ought to
celebrate we ought to care about we
ought to be working very hard take
advantage of but even if you have
capitalism without democracy you can
still have consumer activism of a
tremendously effective kind in a
situation of capitals in the democracy
as I've mentioned you can lead a boycott
you can refuse to buy things you can
lead public consciousness and you can
change things in society in many ways
just through capitalism to pursue vegan
goals even in the absence of democracy
but as you guys know I've been trying to
motivate everyone to take seriously the
advantages we have in living in a
Western capitalist democratic society
not to overlook them not to take them
for granted ok guys thank you very much
your time I'm going to get on to
answering all 100 of your questions in
the Q&A recording very soon hope you've
enjoyed this glimpse of the streets of
conveying